# App Service
Azure App Service is a PaaS offering that allows you to build and host apps. It supports integration with [Azure DevOps](/azure/services/compute/devops/README.md), enabling continuous deployment.

## App Types
The most common apps hosted via the Azure App Service are web apps, webJobs, API apps, and mobile apps. 

**Web Apps**  
The Azure App Service supports hosting web apps using your programming language (e.g., Python, PHP, Ruby, etc.) and operating system (e.g., Windows or Linux) of your choice. 

**WebJobs**  
WebJobs allow you to run scripts or compiled programs in the same context as your web app. 

**API Apps**  
The Azure App Service supports hosting API apps using your programming language and framework of your choice. It also allows you to publish your API to the Azure Marketplace. 

*Use-Case*  
* Build and host an API for a vulnerability scanner using the Azure App Service
* Advertise the API using the Azure Marketplace
* Users register for an API token (out-of-band)
* Users integrate your API into their Azure DevOps pipelines

**Mobile Apps**  
The Azure App Services supports hosting backends for iOS and/or Android apps. Data generated by your mobile app can be stored using Azure SQL. You can also push notifications to your mobile app users via the Azure Portal. 

## App Service Plans 
An App Service Plan (ASP) defines the resources needed to run an app. An ASP defines the following:
* Region: East US, West US, etc.
* Number of VM instances
* Size of VM instances: Small, Medium, or Large
* Pricing Tier: Free, Shared, Basic, Standard (*autoscaling is only above in the Standard tier and above*), etc. 
