
## Data Categorization
Data is categorized by type, encoding, and how well its organized. 

### Type
**Operational Data**  
Operational data is generated by applications, stored in a database, and used in batches.

**Analytical Data**  
Analytical data is operational data that has been prepared (i.e., cleaned and manipulated) for analysis and stored in a data warehouse. 

**Streaming Data**  
Streaming data is is generated by applications, stored in a database, and used in real-time.

### Encoding
**Text-Encoded Data**  
Text-encoded data is meant to be read by a human. 

**Binary-Encoded Data**  
Binary-encoded data is meant to be read by a computer. 

### Structure
**Structured Data**  
Structured data is flat, has a predefined schema, and originates from table-based data sources like relational databases and CSV files. Data is considered flat when it uses rows and columns.

*Quantitative*    
Can be counted in numerical values using statistics such as mean, median, mode, frequency, min/max, and standard deviation (i.e., how data is dispersed in relation to the mean)
* Discrete Quantitative: whole number values (cannot be divided)
* Continuous Quantitative: fractional values (can be divided)

*Qualitative*  
Cannot be counted, but describes attributes.
* Nominal Qualitative: unordered categories (e.g., colors)
* Ordinal Qualitative: ordered categories (e.g., pain scale)
* Binary Qualitative: belongs to one of two categories (e.g., pass or fail)

**Semi-Structured Data**  
Semi-structured data uses key-value pairs but does not have a predefined schema. Semi-structured data originates from nested data sources like JSON, XML, and email files. 

**Unstructured Data**    
Unstructured data is data without a pre-defined set of fields. Unstructured data must be *preprocessed* for it to be converted into structured data. Examples of unstructured data includes pictures, videos, Microsoft PowerPoint files, and the body of an email. 