# Application Performance Monitors
Application Performance Monitors (APMs) are used to provide high-level and customer-oriented [metrics](/cloud/monitoring/README.md#metrics). 

## APM Architectures
### Agent-Based
Within an agent-based APM architecture, the resources you want to monitor generate metrics and/or logs that are collected and transmited by an APM agent to an APM server. Below a list of techniques used by agents to collect and push metrics. 
* Inject JavaScript into HTML documents to get the client side to push metrics to the APM server
* Scrape metrics and/or logs generated by an application or operating system

**Tools**
Below is a list of agent-based APM tools. 
* New Relic 
  * Includes multiple classes of agents (e.g., infrastructure, browser, and mobile)
  * Offers a service map feature (i.e., a graph to visualize the last 30 minutes of activity between a web app's individual components, aka "entities")

### Agentless
Within an agent-less APM architecture, the resources you want to monitor generate, collect, and transmit metrics and/or logs to an APM server. 

**Integrated with Microservices**  
Text goes here. 

**Integrated with the Platform**  
Text goes here. 

### Alerts  
An alert is a warning or indication of a negative condition. APM servers can be configured to generate alerts. Below is a list of examples describing when an APM server should generate an alert. 
* A metric is below an expected baseline
* A metric is above a set threshold
* A metric is outside the range of normal
* A metric indicates an app is no longer responding

## Remediation Plans
**Scaling**  
Scaling is the process of adjusting infrastructure to meet changes in demand. Workloads in production are too unpredictable for manual scaling. The Azure Monitor service provides auto-scaling.

**Availability Tests**   
Availability tests are used to check if an app is responding as expected. 